Hi and welcome back.
Previously we've seen how to do argument unpacking.
We worked on this in section 10.
For an example, we could have something like this,
add all function, that takes in four arguments.
a1 to a4, and then returns
a1, a2, a3 plus a4.
We can call this function, of course,
with multiple values and of course,
I have talked and written code
so I've written returns there.
Not what I want.
We can call this with four values, and run that,
and that gives us 16.
Or, if we have the values somewhere else,
like this tuple here,
we could pass each of the values of the tuple
as a separate argument.
We've looked at this earlier on.
The way we would do that would be by doing *vols, like so.
And as you can see, we get 16 again.
All this has done, is unpacked the iterable,
into multiple arguments and passed each one
as a separate positional argument there.
Similarly, we could have a dictionary of values
where we have a1, here's one,
a2, there's three,
a3, there's five,
and a4, is seven.
And if we wanted to pass in each value
to the corresponding parameter,
noticing that a1 has the same name as the parameter here,
we could do double asterisk vols.
And then again we get 16 but now,
each argument has been passed as a named argument.
Essentially, doing this.
And then a2 is called vols a2, and so forth.
OK?
So we've looked at how we can pass in
arbitrary numbers of arguments or named arguments,
but we've not looked at how we can make our function accept
an arbitrary number of arguments,
and actually it's really simple,
because it's exactly the same syntax.
If you do star args, now what you get
is an iterable of arguments.
Let's print them out.
As you can see, now we can pass in any number of arguments.
This is not a tuple or anything,
these are just arguments that we're passing into a function,
and the function will gladly accept them,
and then print them out as a tuple.
But when we passed it in, this was not a tuple.
These are all separate arguments.
So we can use star args, to accept any number of arguments
and then we can, for example, add them all together,
like return sum of args,
and we can print this out
and as you can see, that's all fine, OK?
These args is a tuple of all the arguments we passed in
that have no names.
If we wanna make sure the function
can accept named arguments,
again you probably guessed it,
all you have to do is do double asterisk,
and then the variable name.
It's common convention to have asterisk args,
and double asterisk kwargs in Python,
but this could be anything you want.
And then we can do something like for k, v in kwargs.items.
This tells you that kwargs is a dictionary when it comes in.
We can do something like print,
for k we have v.
And then we could do pretty_print,
something like username is jose123,
access level is admin, let's say.
And then we can run that,
and what we get back is,
for username we have jose123,
for access level we have admin.
These were condensed into a dictionary and passed in
as key word arguments.
Of course, another option would be
what we've looked at previously,
which is to pass in the dictionary itself.
In this case, something like username is jose123,
access level is admin.
If we run this, though, it doesn't know
that these are key word arguments,
but we know how to turn a dictionary
into key word arguments,
which is by doing the double asterisk.
We run that, and we get exactly the same thing.
OK?
So with single asterisk args, we can accept any number
of positional arguments.
With double asterisk kwargs, we can accept
any number of named arguments.
Those are the only two types of arguments
there are in Python.
So, this is how our decorator is going to work
in the very next video.
We're going to make our decorator accept
any number of arguments of either type
and that's gonna make our decorator
generic for any function.
I'll see you in the very next video.